JSON web Tokens

## Characteristics of the token

Token is just a normal URL Safe string, and can be passed to server in header, body or URL. 

Token is Self Contained. 

Token has three parts separated by dot. 

----------.---------.----------
Header    Payload    signature


#### Header: 
String generated using base64 (Token metadata)

Token meta : 

{
	"type":"jwt",
	 "alg":"HS256"
}

This represents the type of token and which hashing algorithm is used. 

#### Payload

String generated using Base64(our data)

Our data is the data that we want to embed in the token(aka JWT claims)

eg. 
{
	"userid":""x5323",
	 "email": "john@gmail.com",
	 "exp":""23424"
}

These are called claims.


There are three types of claims:

- Registered Claims
- Public Claims
- Private Claims


**Registered Claims:**

Standard names which are reserved for app usage. 

iat: issued at
iss: issuer
sub: token subject
exp: expiry time
aud: token audience



**Public Claims:**

Claims which we can define and use for our own data eg. user , email, etc. 


**Private Claims:**

Names without anyone to expect the consumer and producer of tokens. 


**NOTE: Payload is not encrypted, just encoded - don't store passwords.** 


#### Signature
String generated by hashing the Header, payload with a secret. 

This is held at server and used to generate and verify tokens. 


## How JWT works

1. User logs in(email + password)
2. Server verifies creds
3. Server creates JWT and sends to client
4. Token is stored in client's local storage or cookies
5. Sends token in every request. 
6. Server Verifies Token
7. If matches , grant access. 


eg.

Login -> Get Token -> Stores -> Sends with every request -> Verify -> Access Granted